<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD LIGHTWEIGHT DITA Topic//EN" "lw-topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="error_messages">
   <title>Error Messages</title>
   <shortdesc>The types of error messages you may encounter when using your TRS-80
      computer.</shortdesc>
   <prolog>
      <data name="author" value="Sylvia Yates"/>
   </prolog>
   <body>
      <p>There are three kinds of error messages you might get while using your computer:</p>
      <ul>
         <li><p>Boot errors, such as BOOT ERROR DC. See the Boot Errors Table for more
            information.</p></li>
         <li><p>Operating system errors, such as ERROR 24 or FILE NOT FOUND. To get a brief description
            of a numbered error, type <ph>ERROR</ph> followed by the error number displayed.
            For example, type:</p></li>
      </ul>
      <p>
         <ph>ERROR 31 (ENTER)</ph>
      </p>
      <p>and your screen shows:</p>
      <p>
         <ph>PROGRAM NOT FOUND</ph>
      </p>
      <p>For more information see the System Errors Table.</p>
      <ul>
         <li><p>Application program errors: see your application program manual.</p></li>
      </ul>
      <p>When an error message is displayed:</p>
      <ul>
         <li><p>Try the operation several times.</p></li>
         <li><p>Look up boot errors and operating system errors in the following tables and take the
            recommended actions. See your application program manual for explanations of application
            program errors.</p></li>
         <li><p>Try using other diskettes.</p></li>
         <li><p>Reset the computer and try the operation again.</p></li>
         <li><p>Check all the power connections.</p></li>
         <li><p>Check all interconnections.</p></li>
         <li><p>Remove all diskettes from drives, turn off the computer, wait 15 seconds, and turn it
            on again.</p></li>
         <li><p>If you tried all these remedies and continue to get an error message, contact a <ph
               keyref="company_name"/> Service Center.</p></li>
      </ul>
      <note><p>If more than one thing is wrong, the computer might wait until you correct the first
         error before displaying the second error message.</p></note>
   </body>
</topic>
