<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD LIGHTWEIGHT DITA Topic//EN" "lw-topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="trsdos_II_system_errors_table">
   <title>TRSDOS-II System Errors Table</title>
   <shortdesc>List of the possible TRSDOS-II error messages you may encounter when using the
      TRS-80.</shortdesc>
   <prolog>
      <data name="author" value="Wilson Rodriquez"/>
   </prolog>
   <body>
      <simpletable>
		<sthead>
            <stentry>Code</stentry>
            <stentry>Message</stentry>
            <stentry>Explanation/Action</stentry>
		</sthead>
        <strow>
            <stentry>0</stentry>
            <stentry>No Error Found.</stentry>
            <stentry>No error occurred.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>1</stentry>
            <stentry>Bad Function Code On SVC Call Or No Function Exists.</stentry>
            <stentry>Check the function code number used on the SVC call.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>2</stentry>
            <stentry>Character Not Available.</stentry>
            <stentry>No record or character was available when you you called the SVC.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>3</stentry>
            <stentry>Parameter Error On Call.</stentry>
            <stentry>Parameter is incorrect or a required parameter is missing.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>4</stentry>
            <stentry>CRC Error During Disk I/O.</stentry>
            <stentry>Try the operation again, using a different diskette. If the problem occurs
                     often, contact RSSC.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>5</stentry>
            <stentry>Disk Sector Not Found.</stentry>
            <stentry>Try a different diskette.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>6</stentry>
            <stentry>Attempt To Open A File Which Has Not Been Closed.</stentry>
            <stentry>Close the file before re-opening.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>7</stentry>
            <stentry>Illegal Disk Change. Disk Drive Not Ready.</stentry>
            <stentry>TRSDOS-II detected an illegal disk swap.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>8</stentry>
            <stentry>Disk Drive Not Ready.</stentry>
            <stentry>Drive door is open or the diskette is not in the drive. On Thinline drives,
                     check the DRIVE command settings.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>9</stentry>
            <stentry>Invalid Data Provided By Caller.</stentry>
            <stentry>Data stream to be processed has illegal characters.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>10</stentry>
            <stentry>Maximum Of 16 Files May Be Open At Once.</stentry>
            <stentry>Too many files are open at once.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>11</stentry>
            <stentry>File Already In Directory.</stentry>
            <stentry>Filename already exists as a directory entry. Kill the existing file,
                     choose another filename, or specify a drive number.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>12</stentry>
            <stentry>No Drive Available For An Open.</stentry>
            <stentry>No on-line drive <ul>
                        <li>is write enabled</li>
                        <li>has enough space to create a new file, or </li>
                        <li>has a system directory.</li>
                     </ul>
			</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>13</stentry>
            <stentry>Write Attempt To A Read Only File.</stentry>
            <stentry>File was opened for read only, not for read/write.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>14</stentry>
            <stentry>Write Fault On Disk I/O.</stentry>
            <stentry>Error occurred during a write operation. Try a different diskette. If the
                     problem continues, contact RSSC.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>15</stentry>
            <stentry>Disk Is Write Protected.</stentry>
            <stentry>Write enable the disk.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>16</stentry>
            <stentry>DCB Is Modified And Is Unusable.</stentry>
            <stentry>DCB (used in machine-language programming) has been modified since the last
                     disk access (while the file was open).</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>17</stentry>
            <stentry>Directory Read Error.</stentry>
            <stentry>Error occurred during an attempt to read the directory. Use a different
                     diskette. </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>18</stentry>
            <stentry>Directory Write Error.</stentry>
            <stentry>Error occurred during an attempt to write to the directory. Use a different
                     diskette. </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>19</stentry>
            <stentry>Improper File Name (Filespec).</stentry>
            <stentry>Filespec you gave does not meet TRSDOS-II standard file
                     specifications.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>20</stentry>
            <stentry>Unknown Error Code</stentry>
			<stentry/>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>21</stentry>
            <stentry>Unknown Error Code</stentry>
			<stentry/>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>22</stentry>
            <stentry>Unknown Error Code</stentry>
			<stentry/>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>23</stentry>
            <stentry>Unknown Error Code</stentry>
			<stentry/>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>24</stentry>
            <stentry>File Not Found.</stentry>
            <stentry>Filename you gave was not found on the available disks or the file is the
                     incorrect type for the desired operation.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>25</stentry>
            <stentry>File Access Denied Due To Password Protection.</stentry>
            <stentry>You gave an incorrect password. See the ATTRIB command.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>26</stentry>
            <stentry>Directory Space Full.</stentry>
            <stentry>Number of filenames has reached the amount set when you formatted the
                     disk.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>27</stentry>
            <stentry>Disk Space Full.</stentry>
            <stentry>No space is available on the disk.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>28</stentry>
            <stentry>Attempt To Read Past EOF.</stentry>
            <stentry>Specified record number is past the EOF.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>29</stentry>
            <stentry>Read Attempt Outside Of File Limits.</stentry>
            <stentry>Use valid record numbers.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>30</stentry>
            <stentry>No More Extents Available (16 Maximum).</stentry>
            <stentry>Use the COPY command to copy the files and reduce fragmentation. See also
                     SAVE/RESTORE and MOVE.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>31</stentry>
            <stentry>Program Not Found.</stentry>
            <stentry>Specified program is not found on the available disks.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>32</stentry>
            <stentry>Unknown Drive Number (Filespec).</stentry>
            <stentry>Specified drive number is not valid.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>33</stentry>
            <stentry>Disk Space Allocation Cannot Be Made Due To Fragmentation Of Space.</stentry>
            <stentry>Use the COPY command to copy the files and reduce fragmentation.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>34</stentry>
            <stentry>Attempt To Use A NON Program File As A Program.</stentry>
            <stentry>File specified for execution is not a program file or the load address
                     given is illegal. Make sure you have a system diskette in Drive 0.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>35</stentry>
            <stentry>Memory Fault During Program Load.</stentry>
            <stentry>Program is loaded incorrectly, possibly because of faulty memory or a "bad"
                     load address.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>36</stentry>
            <stentry>Parameter For Open Is Incorrect.</stentry>
            <stentry>Check the OPEN statements or the DCB for errors.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>37</stentry>
            <stentry>Open Attempt For A File Already Open.</stentry>
            <stentry>File specified for open is already open.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>38</stentry>
            <stentry>I/O Attempt To An Unopen File.</stentry>
            <stentry>Open the file before access.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>39</stentry>
            <stentry>Illegal I/O Attempt.</stentry>
            <stentry>
                     <ul>
                        <li>I command not given after a diskette swap.</li>
                        <li>Can be caused by an I/O attempt to a differently formatted disk. Format
                           the disk under the current version of TRSDOS-II or use FCOPY.</li>
                     </ul>
			</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>40</stentry>
            <stentry>Seek Error.</stentry>
            <stentry>
                     <ul>
                        <li>Data cannot be read from the disk – faulty disk.</li>
                        <li>When re-initializing a hard disk, you must also reformat the secondary
                           drives.</li>
                     </ul>
			</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>41</stentry>
            <stentry>Data Lost During Disk I/O (Hardware Fault).</stentry>
            <stentry>Contact RSSC.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>42</stentry>
            <stentry>Printer Not Ready.</stentry>
            <stentry>Check the connections, power, ribbon, on-line status, and so on.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>43</stentry>
            <stentry>Printer Out Of Paper.</stentry>
            <stentry>Check the printer’s paper supply.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>44</stentry>
            <stentry>Printer Fault (May Be Turned Off).</stentry>
            <stentry>Check the connections, power, ribbon, on-line status, and so on.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>45</stentry>
            <stentry>Printer Not Available.</stentry>
            <stentry>Check the connections, power, ribbon, on-line status, and so on.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>46</stentry>
            <stentry>Not Applicable To VLR Type Files.</stentry>
            <stentry>Operation performed is not valid for VLR files.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>47</stentry>
            <stentry>Required Command Parameter Not Found.</stentry>
            <stentry>Required parameter or argument is missing from the command.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>48</stentry>
            <stentry>Incorrect Command Parameter.</stentry>
            <stentry>Option or argument given in the command is incorrect.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>49</stentry>
            <stentry>Hardware Fault During Disk I/O.</stentry>
            <stentry>Contact RSSC.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>50</stentry>
            <stentry>Invalid Space Descriptor.</stentry>
            <stentry>The space descriptor that tells TRSDOS-II which extent to read next is
                     invalid. Try a different diskette.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
            <stentry>51-255</stentry>
            <stentry>Unknown error code</stentry>
			<stentry/>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
      <p>These codes are also returned to machine code routines that call a SVC (System Service
         Call) of TRSDOS-II. Register A usually has a return code after any function call. The Z
         flag is set when no error occurs. Exceptions are certain computational routines, which use
         Registers A and F to pass back data and status information.</p>
   </body>
</topic>
